In this video
let's quickly evaluate a few best practices in RESTful services
design. The first and the last best practice is consumer first.
Always think about your consumer. Have a clear idea about who your consumers are.
Is it a web application?
Do you expect a mobile application coming in, in the future, and have a clear idea of what they want. Before
you name your resources
Think from the perspective of your customers. What do they think about those resources.
Will they be able to understand the naming of your resources. The simpler it is for your consumer to
understand your services the better it is for you.
Last but not least, have great documentation for your APIs.
Swagger is one of the most popular documentation standards for RESTful APIs. But whatever standard you are
using,
Make sure that your consumers understand the documentation that you produce. The next important best
practice.
Make the best use of whatever HTTP provides. RESTful web services are based on HTTP.
Make the best use of the request methods. Use the right request method appropriate for your specific action
Get, Post, Put and Delete. And ensure that you're sending a proper response status back. When a resource
is not found.
Do not send a server error.
When there is a bad request, when there is a validation error, do not send the server error. Send a bad request 400.
When you create a resource do not send just success. Send created back.
Think about what is the appropriate response status for your situation.
Ensure that there is a no secure info that is sent in your URIs. Things like SSN, just don't go by the standard
definition.
Think about what you're putting in the URI and make sure that there is nothing secure that going in
your URIs. Always use plurals.
For example, in the course, we always used slash users. Any resource that we created was slash users slash one. Not slash
user slash one.
I really prefer using the plurals because it’s more readable than using the singular. When you think resources
think noun’s. It user, its account.
It's not delete user.
It's not a delete account.
Think about nouns. When you talk about resources think about nouns. Howeverthinking about noun is
not always possible.
Right?
There are always exceptions scenarios.
For example, if there's a search link on the web page. How do you do that? For all these exceptional scenarios
have a consistent approach.
If you are searching through something then if you are searching through users then say slash users
slash search.
So all the resource have the action defined. For example, this is how Github does a star
on the gists.
So if I put a star on the gist, the way Github sends the request is to the resource of the gist it sends a put request with
star in the URI. And the same thing in delete.
If I unstar something this is the request which goes out. So define a consistent approach of how you would
want to handle the exceptions scenarios. Things that don't fit into the nouns.
What we look at in this step are some of the best practices.
in RESTful	 design.
Most important thing - consumer first.